Minutes of meeting 2022-FEB-24 (#514)
oasis-tcs/sarif-spec: meeting_minutes/220224_SARIF_TC_53.md

# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company          | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:-----------------|:------------------------|

> | Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft        | Voting Member           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Aditya     | Sharad    | GitHub        | Voting Member           |
```

| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft        | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual       | Chair                   |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft        | Voting member           |

> | James      | Spoor     | Snyk Ltd.        | Voting Member           |

Reviewer: James didn't participate in this meeting.

Author: Thanks @eddynaka - fixed

    ```
    March 10
    ```
- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ***On the following date, North America will be on Daylight Savings Time and Europe will not.***
    ```
    March 24
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* David: Good support from OASIS coming up

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* David: Courtney uploaded a new revision in the issue per https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509#issuecomment-1039350887 as https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/files/8062707/sarif-v2.1.0-errata01-csd01-Changes.docx
* David: Kindly asks the members to review the new revision before next meeting
* Michael: Should we add a revision history entry in the document?

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Eddy: 
  * GitHub provided most used languages and tools lists - that includes security and linters (anything that can produce results from users)

>   * Integration of GitHub within the IDEs per SARIF - two proof of concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Integration of AzureDevOps/GitHub within the IDEs per SARIF - two proof of concepts.
```

>   * Current extension was successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Current PoC extension was successful and these changes will be added to the VS/VSCode extension.
```

* Michael: 

>   * The extension from security to also including linters has greatly extended the list of candidate projects to add SARIF export, author corresponding GitHub actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The GHAS (GitHub Advanced Security) is also including linters. Greatly extending the list of candidate projects to add SARIF export, author corresponding GitHub actions.
```

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION David: Find out how to upload content to wikipedia (#507)
  * Ongoing - account granted
* ACTION Michael: to set up meeting information so interested parties can participate on CIP meeting next week
  * Completed
* ACTION Michael: to open an issue in the repo for the numerics problem, tag it as technical topic to be solved by committee.
  * Completed - issue is [Clarify integer (for properties such as location.id) size in spec #516](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/516)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    March 10
    ```

> - Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

Reviewer 2: "Proposed" should be "Scheduled"

Author: Done (and received the invitations). Thanks.

      * monitoring and using the data (observability) 
* Michael: Plans to provide results from his, Nathan's, Eddy's team and others in two weeks time
* All discuss crash report and telemetry integrations
* All discuss how information of several crash reports is typically projected into buckets for guiding developers and that this is strongly tool dependant
* Michael: Reminds on how SARIF extended the use cases as interchange format across boundaries (between tools)
* Stefan: 
  * When we have the first content ideas / models for crash and telemetry data inclusion, then 
  * we should evaluate the following aspects:
    * composing (how can the diverse tools access elements for projecting and aggregating)
    * writing (latency and throughput)
    * remote storing and retrieving (discovery and addressing)
    * reading (latency and throughput)

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

None

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

> * ACTION on David: To please include an agenda item on the reporting of the two week evakuation effort

Reviewer 3: evakuation?

Author: @michaelcfanning please kindly verify that "evaluation" was the term meant ... thanks.
